Add documentation for Web Serial API interfaces (#19)
GoogleChromeLabs/puppy-content: content/en-US/api/Serial.md

---
recipe: api-interface
title: 'Serial'
mdn_url: /en-US/docs/Web/API/Serial
specifications: https://wicg.github.io/serial/#serial-interface
browser_compatibility: api.Serial
---

**When this feature ships, the content below will live on MDN under
[developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API).**

## Description

The `Serial` interface of the Web Serial API provides attributes and methods for
finding and connecting to serial ports from a web page.

This interface requires a secure context.

## Constructor

None.

## Events

> **`Serial.onconnect`**

Reviewer: What event interfaces are passed to the event callbacks? Please add that information all the way through so that when these pages go on MDN we can link to them.

Author: As with the Idle Detection API docs, how would you suggest I phrase this? These sections already use "called" instead of "fired" to refer to running event handlers. Would you suggest "called with an `Event`"?

> Called when the port has been connected to the device. This event is only fired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Called when the port has been connected to the device. This method receives an 
`Event` object. This event is only fired
```

for ports associated with removable devices such as those connected via USB. The

> target of this event is the `SerialPort` interface that has been added. The user

Reviewer: If you used 'added' as a way to add variety to the wording, I generally approve. That issue is less important in reference material, particularly when it's technical.

If there's some other reason, feel free to reject this suggestion.

Author: I've changed this text to consistently use "connected" and "disconnected".

must grant the origin permission to access this device during a call to
`requestDevice()` before this event will be fired.

**`Serial.ondisconnect`**

> Called when the port has been connected to the device. This event is only fired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Called when the port has been disconnected from the device. This event is only fired
```

for ports associated with removable devices such as those connected via USB. The

> target of this event is the `SerialPort` interface that has been removed. The
> user must grant the origin permission to access this device during a call to
> `requestDevice()` before this event will be fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
target of this event is the `SerialPort` interface that has been removed. 
```

Author: Why do you want to remove the final sentence?

Reviewer: I do not remember.

Returns a `Promise` that resolves with an instance of `SerialPort` representing
the device chosen by the user or rejects if no device was selected.

This method must be called with user activation.

**`Serial.getPorts()`**

Returns a `Promise` that resolves with an array of `SerialPort` objects
representing serial ports connected to the host which the origin has permission
to access.

## Examples

The following example shows how a site can check for available ports on load and
allow the user to grant it permission to access more.

```js
// Register event listeners for ports being connected or disconnected.
navigator.serial.addEventListener('connect', (e) => {
  // Connect to `e.target` or add it to a list of available ports.
});
navigator.serial.addEventListener('disconnect', (e) => {
  // Remove `e.target` from the list of available ports.
});

navigator.serial.getPorts().then((ports) => {
  // Initialize the list of available ports with `ports` on page load.
});

// Requesting access to a new port requires a user gesture. React to a button
// click. 
button.addEventListener('click', () => {
  // In this example the set of ports the user can choose from should be

>   // filtered to only include USB devices with a particular vendor ID.

Reviewer: Scanning for particular vender IDs is information that MDN typically puts in the preceding descriptive paragraph, and change the wording to clarify that the point of the example is in the `click` event. 

This is about helping scanability, which is a priority in reference documents. If there were more than one example, we wouldn't want to force readers to examine all of the code to see which example was useful to them. There aren't multiple examples now, but there could be in the future. This will save someone a rewrite and eliminate one chance of introducing a technical error.
